# edma-challenge

The solution is organised as a flexible pipeline where several NLP techniques (relevant keywords extraction, topic modeling, automatic classification, semantic mappings) are sequentially triggered in order to generate an accurate classification per RO type. 
At this stage, a solid baseline has been developed and would have to be fine-tuned per each RO and better evaluated.

Final results to be evaluated are available in the **`/data/FinalResults`** folder ([here](https://github.com/everis-hcl/edma-challenge/tree/master/data/FinalResults)). 
The results are sorted by RO type (`AGR`, `BIO`, `GIT`) and then by extraction technique (`EuroPMCannotations and TFIDF`, `Abstract keywords and TFIDF`, etc.). 
* Files with prefix `BASE` contain results for the base corpus,
* Files with prefix `EXT` contain results for the extended corpus,
* Files with prefix `AUTHOR` contain results for the authors,

## 1. Project structure

### /data
The data folder contains all inputs and outputs used by the tools:

    data
    |- ClassificationResults
    |- FinalResults
    |    |- AGR
    |    |- BIO
    |    |- GIT
    |- RawCorpus
    |    |- AGR
    |    |- BIO
    |    |- GIT
    |-TFIDFcorpus
    |    |- AGR
    |    |- BIO
    |    |- GIT
    |-TopicModels
    |    |- AGR
    |    |- BIO
    |    |- GIT

Important files:
* **`ClassificationResults`**: Output directory for the ML labeller.
* **`FinalResults`**: Final results generated by the ML labeller and the SPARQL mappings.
* **`RawCorpus`**: Full corpus before processing.
* **`TFIDFcorpus`**: TFIDF calculated for each corpus (AGR, BIO, GIT).
* **`TopicModels`**: Models trained for each corpus.


### /java
The java folder contains the source file to perform keyword mappings:

    java
    |-sparql-mapping
    |	|- src
    |		|- ...
    |	|- RunSPARQLMapperAGR.py
    |	|- RunSPARQLMapperBIO.py
    |	|- RunSPARQLMapperGIT.py
    
  Important files:

* **`sparql-mapping`**: Source code of application.
* **`RunSPARQLMapperAGR.py`**: SPARQLMapper launcher for AGR corpus.
* **`RunSPARQLMapperBIO.py`**: SPARQLMapper launcher for BIO corpus.
* **`RunSPARQLMapperGIT.py`**: SPARQLMapper launcher for BIT corpus.

### /python
The python folder contains the source file to perform the corpus pre-processing and the ML labelling:

    python
    |- dbManager
    |	|- ...
    |- docs
    |	|- ...
    |- lemmatizer
    |	|- ...
    |- ml_labeler
    |	|- ...
    |- CreateDatasetAGR.py
    |- CreateDatasetBIO.py
    |- TrainModelsAGR.py
    |- TrainModelsBIO.py
    |- computeTFIDF_AGR.py
    |- computeTFIDF_BIO.py
    |- computeTFIDF_GIT.py

Important files:
* **`ml_labeler`**: ML labeller source code and  guidelines.
* **`CreateDatasetAGR.py`**: Generate the dataset for AGR corpus.
* **`CreateDatasetBIO.py`**: Generate the dataset for BIO corpus.
* **`TrainModelsAGR.py`**: Train models for AGR corpus.
*  **`TrainModelsBIO.py`**: Train models for BIO corpus.
*  **`computeTFIDF_AGR.py`**: Calculate TFIDF for AGR corpus.
*  **`computeTFIDF_BIO.py`**: Calculate TFIDF for BIO corpus.
*  **`computeTFIDF_GIT.py`**: Calculate TFIDF for GIT corpus.

## 2. Instructions to reproduce the final results
### P1 – FROM identified topics and extracted keywords TO well-structured CSV files

####  A. Machine Learning approach
Run the `ml_labeler`available in the [/python/ml_labeller](https://github.com/everis-hcl/edma-challenge/tree/master/python/ml_labeler) folder following the instruction in described the [README.md](https://github.com/everis-hcl/edma-challenge/blob/master/python/ml_labeler/README.md).

#### B. Semantic mapping with SPARQL endpoints
Run the 3 scripts available in the [/java/sparql-mapping](https://github.com/everis-hcl/edma-challenge/tree/master/java/sparql-mapping) folder following the instruction in described the [README.md](https://github.com/everis-hcl/edma-challenge/blob/master/java/README.md):
* **`RunSPARQLMapperAGR.py`**: SPARQLMapper launcher for AGR corpus.
* **`RunSPARQLMapperBIO.py`**: SPARQLMapper launcher for BIO corpus.
* **`RunSPARQLMapperGIT.py`**: SPARQLMapper launcher for BIT corpus.